

Topics:

1.  Introduction to Data Structures, Concept of ADT, 
    Types of Data Structures:-
    Linear and Nonlinear: Array & Tree, (Done)
    Operations on Data Structures. 
2.  Stack and Queues:
2.1 Introduction, (Done)
    ADT of Stack: (LIFO), (Done)
    Operations on Stack: (PUSH, POP, PEAK) :TODO
    Array Implementation of Stack, :TODO
    Applications of Stack-Well form-ness of Parenthesis, Infix to Postfix
    Conversion and Postfix Evaluation, Recursion.
2.2 Introduction, 
    ADT of Queue, (Done)
    Operations on Queue,: (Done)
    Basic Operations on Queue: (Done)
    Some of the basic operations for Queue in Data Structure are:
        enqueue() – Insertion of elements to the queue.
        dequeue() – Removal of elements from the queue.
        peek() or front()- Acquires the data element available at the front node of the queue without deleting it.
        rear() – This operation returns the element at the rear end without removing it.
        isFull() – Validates if the queue is full.
        isEmpty() – Checks if the queue is empty.
        size(): This operation returns the size of the queue i.e. the total number of elements it contains.   
    Array Implementation of Queue, :TODO
    Types of Queue: -Circular Queue, Priority Queue, 
    Introduction of Double Ended Queue, 
    Applications of Queue.
3.  Linked List:
    Introduction, (Done)
    Representation of Linked List, 
    Linked List v/s Array, (Done)
    Types of Linked List - Singly Linked List, Circular Linked List, Doubly Linked List, (Done)
    Operations on Singly Linked List and Doubly Linked List, Stack and Queue using Singly Linked List, 
    Singly Linked List Application-Polynomial Representation and Addition.
4.  Trees:
    Introduction, 
    Tree Terminologies, 
    Binary Tree, 
    Binary Tree Representation,
    Types of Binary Tree, Binary Tree Traversals, Binary Search Tree, Operations on Binary Search Tree, Applications of Binary Tree-Expression Tree,
    Huffman Encoding, 
    Search Trees-AVL, rotations in AVL Tree, operations on AVL Tree,
    Introduction of B Tree, B+ Tree.
5.  Graph:
    Introduction, 
    Graph Terminologies, 
    Representation of Graph, 
    Graph Traversals- Depth First Search (DFS) and Breadth First Search (BFS), 
    Graph Application- Topological Sorting.
6.  Searching Techniques:
    Linear Search, 
    Binary Search, 
    Hashing-Concept, 
    Hash Functions, 
    Collision resolution Techniques